Joey Gallotta Tutorial topic: Update a User's Email (#38)
UWC2-APIDOC/to-do-service-public: docs/tutorials/update-user-email.md

---
layout: page
---

# Tutorial: Update a user's email

> In this tutorial, you'll learn the operations to call to update a user's email.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you'll learn how to update a user's email.
```
Would this work?

Expect this tutorial to take about 15 minutes to complete.

## Before you start

Make sure you've completed the [Before you start a tutorial](before-you-start-a-tutorial) topic on the development system you'll use for the tutorial.

## Update a user's email

> You can update an existing user's email in the To-Do service. To do so, `PUT` an [`email`](../api/user/id/email) resource containing the user's details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can update an existing user's email in the To-Do service.
```
The 2nd sentence might be confusing as the procedure that follows looks like you need to do more than that.

To update a user's email:

1. If your local service is not running, start it.

    ```shell
    cd <your-github-workspace>/to-do-service/api
    # Run the service and monitor its database file for updates
    json-server -w to-do-db-source.json
    ```

1. Open the Postman app on your desktop.
1. In the Postman app, create a new request with these values:
    * **METHOD**: PUT
    * **URL**: `{{base_url}}/user/id/email`
    * **Headers**:
        * `Content-Type: application/json`
    * **Request body**:
        You can change the values of each property as you'd like.

        ```js
        {
            "email": "jen.jones@example.com"
        }
        ```

1. In the Postman app, choose **Send** to make the request.
1. Watch for the response body, which should look something like this. Note that the email should be the same as you used in your **Request body** and the response should include the new user's `email`.

    ```js
    {
        "last_name": "Jones",
        "first_name": "Jenny",
        "email": "jen.jones@example.com",
        "id": 5
    }
    ```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Next steps

```
To make it clear that the paragraph isn't part of the procedure.
